In this video I'd like to go over some of the basics of the standard template library containers.
We will go over the details of specific containers in this video.
We'll get to that soon enough.
Instead it's important to understand what the containers have to offer as far as functionality is concerned
and understand what types of elements we can store in them.
First we know that the ACL containers are data structures that can store almost any type of object and
they're implemented as template base classes each container has a set of member functions that we can
use.
Some of these member functions are specific to a particular container but there are quite a few member
functions that all containers implement move over a table with some of these methods in the next few
slides.
Finally each container has an associated header file that must be included in order to use the container.
We've already seen this with vector and string.
I'll tell you what the specific header files are for each container class.
We go over.
OK so let's take a look at some of the common methods provided by the ACL containers this table and
the table in the next slide show some of the functionality provided by the ACL containers.
Let's start with the default constructor.
All containers provide default constructors and it results in an empty container.
They also provide many versions of overloaded constructors that allow you to initialize the containers
in many ways.
You have to refer to the specific container you want to use to see the various overloaded constructors.
Containers also provide copy and move constructors so we can create a new container based on an existing
container.
We can choose to copy it or move it.
Of course containers provide destructors.
The container destructors cleanup the container and delete all the objects in it.
Containers also provide copy and move assignment.
This of course will allow you to copy or move an existing container into another existing container.
Remember this is not initialization and containers provide the last three methods in the table which
are used very often.
Size returns the number of elements in the container.
Empty returns true or false depending on whether the container is empty or not and the insert method
allows us to insert an element into a container in this table.
We can see that we also have the ability to compare two containers.
We can test to see if the elements of one container are less than the elements of a second container
and we can also test for less than or equal to greater than and greater than or equal to.
We can also check to see if the contents of two containers are the same or not.
Using the equality operators we have the swap function which swaps to containers and we can remove one
or all elements from a container using erase and clear.
And finally we can get iterators to elements in containers.
Not all container support all these iterators but I listed them anyway so you could see them here.
We'll talk about iterators in more detail in the next video so don't worry you'll learn about them in
a few minutes.
This last slide is super important now that we know a little bit more about the functionality provided
by containers.
Let's talk about what types of objects we can store in containers.
First we can store all of the primitive types in containers.
Int float double.
All of them.
But what about our objects.
It's important to remember that when we store an element in a container the container makes a copy of
that element so we must be sure that our objects are copyable and assignable.
This means they must have default copy constructors or our own copy constructors as well as copy assignment.
We can also provide move semantics for efficiency.
Finally the ordered associate of containers must be able to compare objects.
They do this using the less than and the equality operators.
So your objects must support these operators via operator overloading.
OK I hope you can see that everything we've learned and done in this course comes together right here.
We now know exactly what we have to do to make our own objects work with the SBL.
And you know what it's not that complicated.
In most cases we can use all of the compiler provided functionality unless we have raw pointers and
we already learned how to handle classes with raw pointers.
Well that completes this video in the next video we'll learn about iterators which give us something
to do with these containers.
I'll see you there.